# RachelmSiminski-CS-340-14057-M01-Client-Server-Development-2024-C-6-Oct--Dec-
<h3>How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?</h3>
<p>I think one of the most important rules to follow is to keep the program simple. You should only have enough code to be functional. When you add more lines than are needed, you are increasing the number of ways that your program can break. There is a lot that I can do to improve my CRUD module. As it stands the entire module uses a simple user interface to accept input which provides the CRUD functionality, outside of the dashboard. There is some error handling, but I haven't really implemented any input handling. I also hardcoded in the connection variables, which will need to be updated for every user. However, I tried to write the CRUD methods to be a simple as possible while being able to perform the respective actions. The module can be split up or completely repuprosed with not too many edits. Creating reusable code is a great way to save on time and resources. When you're learning to program it's better to not copy and paste, but once you're out in the world working in the field it is probably a big part of you role to copy and paste. When you have a bank of well-written, maintainable, reusable, and adaptable code it makes the whole process much easier and faster.</p>
<h3>How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?</h3>
<p>When I'm completeing these assignments and projects I try to take it step by step. The assignments are usually perfectly structured for this so just following the steps is the best way. My approach overall did not change very much, because I always work in small chunks. I would say one small thing I did change was not deleting anything until I knew it should absolutely not be there. I follow along with freeCodeCamp.org's videos on whichever language I'm working with to help me refresh my memory and improve a bit, and one thing I learned is to just comment instead of deleting. It's not visible in the final product, but as I was working I made sure to just comment out changes that I wanted to make, at least until the change was completely solidified to me. In the future, I would make sure I fully understand the client's needs, and try to adhere to them. I'd work incrementally and test regularly to make sure that my program is functioning as expected and meeting the client's needs.</p>
<h3>What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?</h3>
<p>A computer scientists work includes programming and testing, but extends further than jsut this. Computer scientists analyze and design computer systems, they study computer science theory along with developing programs. This type of project could support companies like Grazioso Salvare by simplifying existing processes. The program automates a bulk of the querying that the Austin Animal Center needs to perform and displays the data in a user friendly dashboard. This can save time and money, and could help the company expand to work with more shelters.</p>
